I think she might have knocked it.
Yeah, I think she did knock it, didn't she?
Yeah, I think she knocked it.
Well, okay, to get play, in Huns Krauss,
Ernst Krause, you know, the greatest American bookseller since Rosenbach, bought from Arthur Holden Corning Glass, one of the great American collectors, his copy of the Gutenberg Bible in the 1970s for around a million dollars.
And you were written in the... No, I wasn't with Lou, but this is knowledge in the trade, you see.
At that time, I was at the first 70s, actually.
took an option on it.
The book was priced $2 million.
Lou took an option, a goodwill deposit, put down a goodwill deposit in the sense that if he couldn't sell the book for the year, he could tell us, he would owe Krauss $200,000 for tying up the book for the year.
Harry thought he could raise the money, Harry had some of the taxes.
To make the whole story short, in 72, no matter how he couldn't raise the money,
Harry was, you know, moved upstairs and kind of had their palace crew.
And Lou paid Hans Krauss the $200,000.
He must have killed him.
Probably killed him.
Well, in around 75, Lou was quite ill at those days, and I was there.
There wasn't much going on, really.
We were selling a lot of detective material in Sherlock Holmes.
Lou one day said,
to his secretary, May Arkin, to see if there's anything in the file about Texas owing me money for the lapse option.
And there wasn't really anything.
No, no, no, no legal documents.
There might have been a letter, not only a legal letter of intent.
There might have been something that Lou would dictate to his secretary after talking to Ransom.
Talked to Harry Ransom, we agreed X, Y, Z, you know, but that's not a legally binding document.
There wasn't anything, and I said, Lou, we've got a lot of stock, a lot of things Texas would want.
Why don't you suggest that they buy $200,000 worth of material at retail from New England here?
He thought that was mad at this point.
He still doesn't.
He called Warren Roberts, and at that time we had a Beckett, Samuel Beckett collection, that Texas had fabulous Beckett manuscripts that didn't have any first editions.
So we sent him the Beckett collection, they picked out, Warren Roberts came up, picked out the Beckett collection,
I think that might have been 75,000, 65,000.
We had had in stock all of George Eliot's corrected proof copies of her novels, of her books.
That was around 77,000.
And then, Warren Roberts picked out from the vast hoard of Siegfried South Sioux material,
$50,000 or whatever it is to make up the difference of $200,000.
That all went to Texas, and that's how, and then Texas did credit check, say, for $200,000.
Yeah, but we built, we invoiced them for these purchases.
You see, what they did, rather than paying Goldman $200,000 just cold cash for nothing, for this last option, it was a compromise.
They said, okay, you know, we haven't been spending much money, but we'll buy $200,000 from the inventory.
So they came up and they selected this material.
In fact, it's Sue, George Eliot.
You can't add a zero, but you can multiply it by five, certainly.
You know what I mean?
It's a million dollars worth of stuff.
So they used up, they bought $200,000 worth of retail.
This was your idea.
It was my idea.
I mean, I have no documentation, but I'd sit around with Lou in these afternoons.
He died.
I think he was 70 when he died.
He had some leg problems, all kinds of problems.
And he would lie in bed.
Usually, if it was an afternoon Yankee game on, he had the Yankee game on.
And he would sit there, and he would just kind of talk, snooze, that nobody else to talk to him.
And one day I'll remember him saying, it's like we're on a log.
I'm at one end and you're on the other because I'd sit at the foot of the dead.
I one time asked him, you know, he told me stories about his early days.
He got married at 19.
He came from a Jewish family in Brownsburg, and I think he lived in Hoboken for a while.
I said, Lou, why'd you get married in 19?
He says, I thought sex was going to go out of style.
You see?
He was an earthy person.
But he was honest.
He was sharp.
But he felt, having worked his way up the hard way, he wanted to take on the trappings of respectability and honesty.
He could be arrogant.
He could be totally uncharming.
People loathed him, particularly the more traditional booksellers who saw him as an arch-team, as an arch-team.
You say, hey, because here's this Texas thing, they're upsetting the market.
Of course, you look back from today's standard, it looks like kids playing in a sandbox compared to the prices and what's going on today.
Just don't have a chance that we missed that quote, and we're running now.
Give me the gold and get straight once more.
One time I asked Lou, there was a great collector named Jonathan Gideon, of modern literature, like an old line.
His library was dispersed at Sotheby's in 76, 78.
I cataloged it there.
Hemingway, expatriate writers, fabulous.
And what we were talking about him one day was at Thelma's.
The afternoons that we just sat around and talked.
I said, whatever happened to Jonathan Griffin?
He said, oh, God, in those years, I had the golden goose.
I couldn't pay attention to these chickens.
He said he was one of the great collectors here in Canada.
He said, I didn't have the time.
The offices, I called my office the world's most expensive warehouse because the stuff would come in in plates.
from auctions, from authors, from archives from Europe, and they'd be processed, and the customs drive would come, the men would go down to Texas.
Was he buying with discrimination, do you think, or was he buying in one direction?
No, he was buying...
I mean, some things you say, well, I wonder why that's down there.
They have the money to spend, and, you know, I mean, I always used to say, Harry's holding the vacuum.
Harry has the vacuum cleaner plugged in, and Lou's holding the vacuum cleaner.
The stuff's around, they have the money to spend.
Yes, you're going to be buying.
Sometimes it will have to spend much.
But they would drop stuff.
There were some things that wouldn't go near.
There's a lot of minor writers that might have ended up.
No, I'm fine.
There's a lot of minor writers might have done it up.
In hindsight, they don't look important.
But this is minor, and it wasn't expensive.
You know, look back on the stuff.
It wasn't expensive.
You're familiar with Charles Tennyson's book, Action 1, which was 81.
He makes this extraordinary allegation that both men were dead at the time.
Both men were dead.
I should have brought a copy of it with me, but it's certainly one of the most inflammatory things.
Well, it's scandalous, I think.
Well, it's libelous if they were alive.
Detective Turner, when he was...
head of HRC.
I always thought it's Humanities Research Center and Harry Ransom Center, you know, and it's the same monograph.
And it said that Harry Ransom named at HRC the ultimate redesignation.
And I was going to say yes, and I think Decker Turner and Thelman's sons, Joel
and Arnold.
Coleman had two sons.
Joel's passed away.
Arnold is retired, I guess, at this point.
He was in the Garment Center.
Whether they still have the LDF files, I don't know.
They're very paranoid, particularly after that book came out.
They just don't want anybody to poke around.
I always said you should send it down to Texas.
It belongs to Texas, and nothing's ever come of that.
Are these guys around, the Feldman boys?
Arnold's around.
I can give you his number if you want.
I mean, I have it at home.
You could say you're writing a book, and you could always preface it by you wanting to get the other side of the story from that horrible Hamilton book.
Well, let me put this on the record while we're talking.
I confronted Hamilton on the phone.
We did a telephone interview.
It's almost like he had been waiting nine years for this question to be asked.
And I said, where did you go?
Do you have anything to back this up?
I mean, you make a flat statement that they made millions together, bilking, and these are the verbs that he used.
The University of Texas buying worthless materials.
I mean, so it's one word after another.
And I say, can you give me one example?
Give me one example of worthless material that they bought, how much they paid for it, and how you know that they came to make millions.
I mean, these are pretty straightforward questions, but if you make allegations like that, you should be prepared to defend.
And he said, well, I can't give you any specifics on this.
I'll play the tape for you.
I mean, if you were a witness man, I mean, you'd blow him out of the water.
Well, the book was a horrible book.
It was interesting at some points, but he was also insulting the other auction house.
But that was scandalous.
He got that information.
Let me just tell you what he told me.
Let me tell you what he told me.
What he told me is,
Yet, he was very friendly with a former secretary of 812, and she wouldn't name her.
And she told him this.
And I said, what is this woman's name?
And he wouldn't tell me.
I said, well, do you think she'll talk to me?
They said, I'd have to ask.
I'd have to check.
But I don't think socials become very efficient.
I said, but she didn't give you any specifics.
And he said, none that I can give you.
I mean, in other words, he bailed out of it.
He bailed out of it.
And I think I can blow this thing out of the water.
Well, I think you can.
And what it is, the woman's name is Miss Regina, R-E-G-I-N-A Reynolds, R-E-Y-N-O-L-D-S.
And she lived at the Barbizon Hotel, which used to be the Barbizon Hotel for women.
Doleman's co-ops, he had kind of a half a floor co-ops.
On 63rd Street in Lexington, right across the street, this is Barber's Art.
When I went there in January of 73, Lou had just come out of the hospital, there was some medical problem, and he had a male nurse.
And Regina was always in the hunt for sugar daddy.
She would dial herself up.
How old was she?
At that time, she must have been... She must have been 50-ish.
Late 40s, 50-ish.
45-ish would be... It was hard to tell, because she'd really...
She's a nice looking woman and very feminine in terms of the 50 movies and how she thought men would appreciate femininity.
Oh, man, let me do that for you.
You know, I mean, now the women will just blow her out.
You can't do that anymore.
They don't like talking.
I mean, she makes Barbara Bush like a shaming radical.
And she got in there and she was like kind of a companion.
Not a nurse.
Help her.
She traveled with Lou.
I don't think there was any hanky-panky at all.
I don't think so.
I don't know.
They would always upset what they told them.
New dependent upon his wife, Sally, who he married at 19.
Yeah, it was kind of a single one of them.
Sally sheared them from reality and made them the great new to go to auctions and buy all this stuff.
And Regina got rid of them all first, and she was there every day, walking across the street.
Helping to take care of Lou, go out to lunch with him, travel with him, answer phone calls at night for him.
Lou was used to being late at that.
And she hung in and hung in.
I thought maybe she thought Lou might marry her.
I think the most she ever got out of it was her first store from Lou's first wife got the store in the closet.
How long would you say she was living?
January 73 until his death in October 76.
I left in July 76.
Lou died in October 76.
Three and a half years.
So maybe she thought that she was in for something.
She thought she was in for something in the world, or perhaps not.
This is from her now, but when Lou was in the hospital a couple weeks before, he had, I forget the exact disease he had.
He had all kinds of nervous diseases.
I heard he had Lou Gehrig's disease.
It could have been that.
I think it was that.
In fact, that's what it was.
It's a horrible disease.
It's a waste of time.
A couple times out of, you know, helped Lou out of a bathtub, things like that.
Anyway, I had heard from her after Lou died that she, Lou had promised her that he's going to marry her.
You see, well, you've got to be careful with Lou's promises.
He was honest, but it's because he promised that.
But his sons found out about her, maybe Dad might marry this woman.
He might die, but she gets the widow's share of the estate.
And they had the locks changed on the apartment so she couldn't get in there.
After he died around the house, two weeks before he died, a couple of weeks before he died, they kind of kicked her out, changed the locks in the apartment, got some practical nurse to take care of her father, and she couldn't get back in there.
She said she's pissed.
She's pissed.
So after Lou died and was buried, she calls me, she had some schemes because she hated the two sons.
She had some scheme of kind of putting in for calimony.
Essentially you get a blackmail.
If I don't get something, something is staged.
We might squeal to the IRS that tax irregularities, that the value of the estate, the value of the inventory, was appraised too low, like she knew, like she would know.
But she's quite capable.
She might have talked to Lou and said, you know, what's the business word, Lou, and stuff like that.
She might have had a little bit of information.
She had no documentation.
in fact one day very nicely she calls me and says come down to this lawyer with me and i'm down to this lawyer you know she's going to try to get something from the boys and i realized my god she's trying to get info from me to use the kind of blackmail the two cents i don't think the lawyer proceeded with it he saw this kind of dirty yeah but i got out of it but
Charles Hamilton lived on 63rd Street.
So this makes sense to you when I told you that there's a... Oh, this is the person.
See, Hamilton lived on 63rd, like 63rd and 3rd.
Regina Runners lived in the Barbizon Hotel for women at 63rd and next.
Feldman was at 63rd and next.
So Hamilton was a neighbor.
And Regina was always going to different coffee shops and everything.
She met Hamilton.
Might have talked to her.
Might have even gone up for drinks or something.
And afterwards, she might have said, you know, boy, I'll tell you stuff that happened there.
Hamilton, who's
and figured, yeah, well, you can't invite somebody for slandering a dead person.
He claims, he said that he never writes about people who are living.
Well, that's kind of cowardly, because he has no documentation.
Only hearsay evidence from a disenchanted ex-companion or somebody.
Someone who, without question, had an axe to grab.
Yeah, had an axe to grab.
That's where Hamilton gets all the information.
I should be able to locate her, wouldn't you think?
Do you think she's got a phone number?
You could try.
Don't mention my name, though, because she might not.
I'll tell you what I would say to her.
I mean, I'm very scared.
Yeah, I did an interview with Charles Hamilton.
Also, she's known in the trade.
Every time you go to London, I did an interview with Charles Hamilton.
He identified you as the source.
He didn't say this to me last night.
He didn't identify you by name, but I thought, you know, you were... I could handle it.
As soon as you told me that story, as soon as Hamilton revealed the source, I said, oh, that's Regina.
The only other woman there...
The only other employee at that time, other than me, was a very sweet secretary bookkeeper called May Harkin, who is a Jewish grandmother.
I mean, there would be no... She wouldn't tell you it was raining outside, you know.
She would not have been the source.
She didn't know too much about the business.
So it's Regina Reynolds, and this is the background of God.
Just give me a general assessment.
Is he a good bookman?
I suspect someplace that he really wanted to be recognized as the Rosenbach of his life.
He wanted to be recognized as the Rosenbach of his life.
Dougher, he was extremely knowledgeable in the detective literature area, and I would say he was extremely knowledgeable in 19th and 20th century literature.
Any more knowledge of it in some of the dealers today?
Not necessarily in pure knowledge.
He was very good as a businessman.
Before he caught on with Ransom, he was just a normal book dealer.
The Ransom thing kind of made, gave him the statue.
He was buying for taxes.
What do you think Harry Ransom's shop?
I mean, there are hints of Harry Ransom.
You just have to go to Texas just to realize that Jewish people aren't the most popular.
Yeah.
And people were amazed that his main man in the world would be a Jewish guy.
Well, one of the English dealers who tried to cut in that business was
Not a wine crowd.
An English bookseller.
wine shop is not the right word the voter would know i think uh maybe an architectural bill i don't know they said they shared this passion they shared this incredible passion of getting this material building up the line down in texas they say they call it harry wrestling's vision yeah and they shared it that they have but they shared lou would talk about this too and lou would say oh one day harry wanted to value the dora family castle in switzerland i said harry you really want that he said yes
So when the master spoke, I moved.
Apparently his letters
I've seen a few letters in the North of Texas.
Very poppice level.
It's the editorial we, I mean.
The real we, poppice.
You see, coming up, we never went to college, but we think that he was going to be a rabbi.
So he's putting on all these general traffic.
You know, there's an American original story there is what I mean, you know.
They say Lower East Side.
Lower East Side drew as a kid, marries young, likes books.
He was a manager in the 30s of some foreman and some factory they made hairbrushes, you know, and picks himself up and gets these trampings of silk socks and hamburgs and staying at the Westbury and cars meeting and like,
at the airport, and his wife, for a while in the 50s, he lived in, he could make estates, and he would advertise, my wife Sally does an IC-ish tea.
You see?
Well, that ties in with the commodity, I've heard Cahoon.
Now, Lou, you have the commodity to go with the commodity.
He didn't think it would be pronounced that way.
He thought it was the wrong way.
Well, you see, Renovan says,
Well, yes, yeah.
The borders on anti-Semitism.
It borders on anti-Semitism, but then the ghost of New could say, well, Wilhampton, you went bankrupt, I did.
You see, I mean, he was the squadron forced out of the auction business.
Hamilton, as a knowledgeable person about autographs, I think he's nuts.
Hamilton as a businessman, even then, you know, I hear from very good people that, I mean, he's a hip shooter.
Well, yeah, he shoots in the hip.
Well, so does Ken and Doug, too.
Sorry, Ken.
Ken's my sister.
Well, you've got to balance one against another.
I mean, Ken got in pretty deep in the Hitler Diaries before he got out of it, you know what I mean?
Hamilton said,
It's inconceivable that Hitler could have spent this time writing his letters and so where the man never wrote.
Could you imagine him in the bottom of the transfer at night grinding out these diaries?
He was using common sense.
Common sense.
As opposed to common sense and provenance.
The older I get in the field, common sense and provenance, meaning where something came from, are the most important factors in the business.
In today's field, there's a lot of crazy money running around.
Did we see any of it this morning?
It's hard to say, I mean, I don't think.
Look at the glorious books today.
So, I mean, can you say the price on that anthony is too much?
Who bought it, by the way?
It was a telephone there.
It was a told good on that.
Or was it Mags?
No, Mags bought it.
Mags bought it.
I don't think it would have been for Fury.
It could have been Max.
He's kind of managing the business as an advisor, consultant, agent for John Paul Dettie Jr.
who is
The great collector in the world today.
Getty, I mean, maybe Getty bought it.
Maybe Max has another good living on it.
It could well be Getty.
And the books are probably going to slow in everyone.
What do you think of the stories in this world today?
Bob Peary might have been.
I don't know Bob that well.
He might have been after some of the early divings.
I can almost figure out what he was buying.
I wasn't...
He has a fabulous collection.
He's a connoisseur, very knowledgeable, very knowledgeable collector.
When you talk about old smart money versus new dumb money, Bob Perry would be old smart money, meaning your purchases are informed by knowledge and connoisseurship and taste rather than this, I got a lot of money, I want to buy big important books.
That's what's going on in the field about it.
Not to mention names, there's a lot of new dealers about it.
If you put father in the room, they wouldn't know anything.
And they're bidding for guys who don't know anything, but they have a lot of money.
Larry would be great.
I mean, I don't know him, but I would imagine he would be.
He doesn't want to talk about book selling, but he said, I hope I'm going to be able to.
Oh, well, Larry, ask him if you can.
He would be very interesting.
He has been so good.
He sent him two letters in one day.
explaining and the reason he doesn't want to talk about book selling is because he has he said familiarity has bred indifference and he said one day i planned to write an essay on illiteracy in the book okay it's getting worse i said what do you mean by this he said nope i'm not going to you're not going to get me to talk about it but he told me to talk to his partner uh carter um you know
Those of us who have been in the business, I ended the business, I was in the New York University, 63 years ago.
I've been around since now, January 67.
And it'd be like,
the other side of Mars today compared to how it was in 67.
It used to be a gentleman's field, orderly practices or even orderly, great kind of things done in a handshake.
You knew who the collectors were.
People were buying mainly for the love of buying books.
Do you think it's more investment?
I think there's a lot of investment.
Do you think Dick Manning thinks it's more investment?
Whatever you don't want to say.
No, I can say this because you know, I would say Dick Manning is in a couple things.
He's in, he gets in culture.
Culture.
Instant.
Instant culture.
He's in, when there's an auction, he wants to participate in, he likes to go to the auction.
So he gets a lot of nice eagle strokes, massage, oh, there's Dick Manning, you buy this.
He likes to be seen underbidding or buying something.
Does he read the books, like the books, or really what it is?
I don't know.
But if you had a Dick Manny on one end of the seesaw, at an H. Bradley, Martin, or Bob Currie on the other end, you can see the enormous chasm between them.
Well, you know, I asked him why he started collecting books, you know.
How he came to chess, because he does a lot of art to collect.
Yeah, he did art and play, and he took all the curation.
He would have for the average person coming up there to look at the stuff
He would have as much, how can I phrase it, he'd have enough glamour than a faction of the chorus.
How many were the Shakespeare's he paid $2 million for?
Yeah, $2 million.
Most consensus, most feeling is that he overpaid for the thing, and he hasn't really been buying much since then.
No, I've been watching Jim.
I've been watching Jim at every afternoon.
Jim's in it, and Jim drops out.
He really went after the Washington Federalists.
He went after that.
Actually, I was at that sale when John Marion sold, and they apparently had a bid sent in to the auctioneer.
Marion was executing that against Manny, and I think Marion just drew an extra $400,000 or $500,000 out of Manny, because all eyes were on Dick Manny.
You know Michael Zinman?
I know of Michael.
Bill Reese would be more knowledgeable.
Michael, I've met him in his cocktail party.
He's a real coward.
He's a wild guy.
I don't know that much about him.
I met him right here at the cocktail party.
Yeah.
But to give you an indication, say where the market is.
In 76,
A young collector named Dr. Gerald E. Slater, a pediatrician from Minneapolis, attended an auction, bought one or two things, and was very interested in 19th century English American literature, and he branched into 18th century.
And he collected from 476, Christie sold his books in spring 82.
Jerry Slater was a major first in the field from about in the late 70s until Hayden Moore came along in the Houghton sales.
And Jerry might have had $75,000 a year to spend.
But he didn't have it as well.
$75,000 in the mid,
mid to late 70s, spent matters a day with good advice from girls, and Jerry was likable, so all the younger girls were giving him really good advice.
Did very well.
He picked up marvelous, super fine copies of Moby Dick and Victorian novels, and then George had some 18th century books, and Jerry got first crap out of buying a tablet, meaning 75,000, 85,000,
A year in 76, 77, 78, 79.
He could really do something.
I think when his book sold, he might have had about $400,000 cost.
We sold it at Christie's, and I think we got about $600,000 and changed, which something sold.
So soon after acquiring it, it's remarkable, particularly in that market that day.
Now, 75... I think probably... It might have been 650,000 gross, maybe a 10% commission.
You kind of made a little money on it.
You didn't lose any money.
He didn't do that well.
He didn't do all that well.
No, but it's only a five-year home.
You know, you're still buying retail and you come at auction.
I know, he didn't drop his money or triple his money.
look if you figure out how well he really did i don't know either you know do you do better with real books than you do with real estate i have some indications that they really lost as well as that sale went i mean i think he lost his ass i think he lost his ass in a couple items if you work out the the way to return less charges and commissions and insurance or whatever
He was getting a divorce with his wife.
I think he's kind of doing it as an investment.
I think he fell in love with books.
I think he liked them.
He's still around.
He's still around, but nobody's heard of him in the field for eight years.
It might be interesting for me to give him a telephone call.
You could give him a telephone call.
I'm going out that way.
I'll tell you who might still have his number.
A person you've got to talk to.
One of the people you've got to talk to is Steve Weissman at Zimite.
I know Steve and I have a nodding acquaintance.
Talk to Steve.
He's really... He's really...
I mean, he has an acute intelligence.
Very sharp in things, you know.
You see, I'm trying to give you names.
There's all kinds of... I'll give you characters, I'll give you...
Solid people who really don't know what to talk about.
You told me that you had the Avalon Morse story to end Avalon Morse stories.
Yeah.
You teased me with that.
Because you can't print it.
Well, you don't know that.
You don't know that.
I've got some great Avalon Morse stories.
We'll get back to the others.
In spring 79, David Moore came down for a boardroom lunch at Christie's.
I was there, Stephen Massey, who I was head of the book department, who started there.
There was a woman named Fanny Neville, who cataloged, worked at Christie's, and I was over here for a while.
It was nice to bring down.
We go back after this nice kind of doozy lunch.
Ava Namor, Steven Massey, myself, Danny Neville Rock, go up to Steven Massey's apartment.
that he stayed thirsty.
And what is the occasion?
The occasion is, there was a lunch, even the Moore came down for his lunch.
And it was one of these great spring bellies, and everybody was in a jolly mood.
They're sitting up at Massey's having drinks.
And Massey's wife was there, who's quite attractive girl from Texas.
Moore's wife was off doing something else.
Maria.
Moore at that time had a 600-dollar suit, so when I was today, they had a 300-dollar suit.
Sooner or later, he was telling his life story, how he was raised with the Cherokee Indians in Oklahoma, was taught knife fighting.
Sooner or later,
Everybody's edging each other on, and they're kind of showing how they would night fight, or how they would wrestle.
Massey's wife was down to kind of running shorts and a t-shirt, and Moore was down to his jockey shorts.
Part Indian.
They're separated now, or they're divorced.
Do they get into an Indian fight?
They take their clothes off?
Yes, yes.
You hear from me?
I mean, I'll tell you the story.
They're virtually a more stark naked at this point.
Rainey still has her running shorts on.
He was drunk.
I was cold sober, so I didn't drink.
So I was, you know, cold sober watching this stuff.
You wanted to appear cool.
You didn't want to necessarily grieve.
You were curious about what happened.
He was trying to essentially get Stephen's wife in the bedroom.
Or get her to take her clothes off.
He loved the chase.
He loved the chase with her.
He cut his finger.
Lady Massey was trying to, you know, take care of his finger, and Amor was sitting on the couch, like there was not a stitch of clothing on him.
And then, I think he might have put his underpants on after a while, then he began reciting poetry, like this epic poetry, then telling us his life story, about how we can kind of calculate, could he really have been a sergeant in World War II?
very insulting, saying things like, well, I was in World War II, of course, we made the world safe for pansies like Desla.
But Desla was one of the leading books on it.
So it was one like this, kind of a rough purgasmack, in a way.
And I think we're all leading.
And he said, I'm sure you're probably can't wait to tell somebody all about this tomorrow.
Well, we did, and I kind of waited a couple of years, and I said, well, this is too good to tell, because I kept hearing Haven of Moore stories from a tribe or from other people.
That's just wonderful.
Well, there are ties right there.
Yeah, Hebrew newspaper.
Hebrew newspaper.
And you know, you Jews all have all, what do we have all, you know.
So that's a normal Haven of Moore story.
So I always thought Haven was something of a psychopath, you know, or just, you know,
Weird.
Somebody who wrote, like, showed the biographical word he wrote about himself to a major New York psychiatrist.
Yeah.
And said, it's just going to strike me as, what do you think?
I said, the guy, the guy is a fucking nice guy.
He is fucking nuts.
I'm telling you the same quote-unquote.
He said, I'm just quoting the job.
The ultimate of us is sitting on this couch doing this and wearing masks.
He's coming back.
And he said, maybe I can get her.
Maybe I can get her.
you have a very chasable wife
but that was it i'm sitting right on the settee he's sitting he said oh what was it because they were fixing his from somebody scratches you know we did miss you did miss what how the actual fight because i knew well they're kind of they're tussling around he says no you can fight better if you take your clothes off that's how he said she said he said
And what did she say?
She didn't strip down anymore.
She still had her running shorts on and her bra on.
But she was... She was leading them on, too, in a way.
It was like a party scene, and you thought it was innocent.
But he kept saying, I can't fight with these clothes on.
Did you ever talk books with him?
He would ask my advice on American literature, and what you told Haven, you'd just say, Haven, you got the greatest copies of the greatest books.
Do I?
Do I have the best?
Is that the best copy you've ever seen?
Yes, Haven, the best copy you've ever seen.
Because he was such a hot fish in the field that the one time we tried to give him advice at Christie's, Horwich said, don't upset the apricot in the sale we're trying to make.
I mean, said to them, said to us, like Christians, because they were trying to, we recommended that we buy another coffee, and they were trying to sell them an inferior coffee.
You know, I mean, look, in that field, you've got a guy who's spending hundreds of thousands of dollars a year.
How did he arrive in the sea there, Mr. King?
Did he arrive?
In 75 I heard, it kind of just appeared, I heard about some couple from New England buying books.
I was at Thelman's in 76.
diamonds on vacation to Bermuda, I'm there packing books with a t-shirt on, and jeans, and somebody comes up, his wife woman only, and my dad is saving him on his wife, and I said, I thought that was a bad.
So they came up, and I showed him some things, which they bought, eventually.
In fact, I took him up to Boston, at Johnson's Dictionary.
Did you move on to his house?
No, I was met, and his wife, and his majordomo, who was,
I was met at Back Bay Station and I just put the package in the back of the back of the station rocket and it happened there.
It's like the baby.
It's like the Shakespeare's up to the house.
Yeah.
Everybody wanted to know.
And this story's really made the rounds.
Yeah.
It's locked in the door.
And I've been to the house now.
I know where it is.
Asked to come in.
Asked if we could use the bathroom.
Where do you want to come in and see the camera?
Because there's a gas station in the house.
No.
I think the only dealer in the mind was Franklin.
He never liked Franklin.
Arthur Freeman might have gotten inside the investment.
Arthur Freeman did.
Arthur would be good on Haven.
I thought that.
Arthur would be good.
I always thought Haven was investing.
I thought Haven was pure investment.
Did you ever have any idea that there was a young guy putting all the money into this?
All of the money?
No.
I thought it was something.
At one point at Feldman's in 76, before I left, in spring 76, we had heard at Feldman's about some science collection in northern Italy.
Feldman or Moore bought a copy of the Copernicus.
Similar copies sold today.
Didn't he buy one of the stolen ones out of Chicago, too?
He bought the Harvey, the Mortal Corpus.
There's a wonderful story about that.
I mean, Alex, you gotta have a meeting.
I mean, the lawyers were there.
And the way I get up with the book, he kept here.
He said, get your hands off my book.
I mean, the psychiatrist you show, I always start.
I used to tell Stephen, I told other people from early on, this guy is a nut.
Did you ever tell me about the Institute of Traditional Science?
That was the early, early institute where we used to bill.
We used to send, make out the invoices to that institution.
And you said it was a post office?
A post office, yes.
Well, to make the story short, we were going to go, at one point in 76, in the madness, Haven Amour and I and some English dealer were going to fly to Italy
to bring the science collection into Switzerland, which was smuggling, and then try to get it into the States.
Thank God it all fell through.
It was a stone, but it was very difficult to get books out of Italy, so this had been stuff that had been driven across the border.
I mean, thank God it never worked out.
But that's the kind of thing that the world was involved in, wanted to get involved in.
I think it is opposed to me.
It sounded like something.
It sounded like some tax commitment to me.
No, exactly.
I've got the papers that he filed with the Secretary of State Office.
I mean, it was an education foundation.
They were buying these checks so they could capture the energy to contain
I came across an advertisement of early yoga film demonstrating some modus positions.
I think Fred was regaling us with his name.
Ask Fred if he remembers.
It was either Fred or somebody else we know.
I'd seen an ad for a videotape of Haven Amore, taken in the early 70s, demonstrating a yoga position.
He used to stay at Fleming's.
He used to come to town.
Well, he would buy a lot from coming.
He was safe at the PA.
He loved the PA.
But there were times he stayed at London's place.
They would keep a bottle of his special brandy.
The woman I spoke with at the work there, she's in London now.
He would have the same blue silk robe, and he would get up in the morning, and he would still get stiff.
You see, John could handle, from the old Rosenberg, John could handle these vows.
We must forgive him because he loves books so much.
We must forgive him because he spends a lot of money.
We're trying to be one of the tourists.
I mean, Moore might have loved books for some really spooky reason.
It's going to be a really terrific chapter.
I mean, you know, his name is... Have you heard that?
I've heard that from Arthur.
In fact, Arthur cracked that joke after.
No, he has been known to say this.
Hey, you know what my name is?
I mean, I've been able to find no record of the guy prior to the 50s or the 60s, and I've been looking at him.
This is an interesting story.
You see, because this was, in terms of lot average,
a private collection for him.
I mean, it was quite electrifying to sell 300 items, 150 lots, 16 million dollars, formed over a 15 year period.
I'd always wanted, I didn't have the time and whether I could do it this summer, would be to break down
A lot of his costs would be available from dealers, right down exactly within 90% of what the actual costs are.
Are you thinking of doing that?
It takes a lot of time.
I thought I'd do it.
Even on a random set of maybe 10 racks?
No, I think you've got to do it more complete because there was some evenness in the sale.
In a sense, are real books and manuscripts a great investment, or are they not a great investment?
Here's a classic case of a library, I swear, formed for investments from 75 until late 70s, 70, 80, probably stopped by.
These are the costs.
You give it to an accountant, you break down the rate of return.
The litigation started in January of the year.
Not getting involved with legal fees, just what the books cost and what the books realize.
And if you're an average person to have these books, would you come out better than the bank, come out better than Wall Street?
Except the South East is projecting $10 million.
Well, we did an appraisal with the Christie's, who I'm a consultant in.
We said the books are worth 11 million.
We were angling to get the business.
Sotheby's was angling to get the business.
They used our figure of 11 million dollars.
What other reasons, what other inducements were provided, we don't know.
I didn't.
Massey went.
Steven Massey went.
Steve Weissman went up to work on the appraiser.
A lot of it was next to a Moores house in Cambridge.
Books were piled up like this, not in bookshelves, all wrapped up in tissue and paper.
It never even been opened.
They were opened and then wrapped up again.
They had to take their shoes off and they walked into the house.
And they thought that Moore was looking at him from the house next door through this window.
You know, an American pocket.
Steve Weissman?
I think Steve Weissman went up with him.
Yeah, Steve Weissman, Felix Oyens at L.C.
Harper.
Stephen Massey working the appraisal.
And I said, I kept telling Stephen, I don't want to go up there, the guy's in that case.
You know, the guy's in that case.
I don't like the guy.
A lot of it was in bank vaults, but it was brought out of bank vaults and put in the... I think it was brought out of the bank vaults and brought, a lot of it was brought into...
this totally empty room in one of the houses.
He had his furniture in the house.
Massey could give you all that.
I should talk to Massey.
You should talk to Massey.
He might be a little difficult to talk to.
I don't know.
I mean, he might be all right.
Call him and say, look, you're right.
Give him your credentials.
You've been talking to members, significant members.
You've been talking to everybody.
And a big part of the book should be a big chapter on Haven No More as a collector.
It's called The Have No More.
Well, as the author said, after I even bought some stuff myself, Have No More, I mean, Have No More Money.
Well, that's the title of my final chapter.
Have No More.
It's a winner.
Well, I got the influence of... No, I'm fine, because I'm not going back.
Let's set up the...
They set up the Garden Limited Trust.
They set that up in Poughkeepsie, New York, of all places.
I mean, it should be in Massachusetts.
I finally found it in Poughkeepsie.
And this guy gave
brought in $23 million to this kid.
He must have been under some kind of... Well, as we know, I mean, you get a guru under influence of something.
The court has impounded all the papers.
I think I can get them if I decide to sue.
I may, if you know.
But I was able to get a copy of the court docket before the judge impounded the case.
I've been using this docket as kind of a Rosetta store that's just directed me
Do you know Diverse Bowls?
I've spent an evening of that.
They're fantastic.
This is what I mean.
What I was saying before about collectors on one side and what I call buyers on the other side.
Burst buyers, Curie, Shidey, Lady Eccles, Bob Taylor who passed away a couple years ago.
These are connoisseurs, true book collectors.
I don't know if Carlton Lake done well.
I think Carlton Lake as a curator in French literature and manuscripts from Texas is marvelous.
He's one of the few people in the United States that know their way around French literature.
Well, I went to, I mean, I went to France.
They said, what did you go to France for us?
Because I had heard that his collection is preeminent in the United States for what it is.
But I didn't want an American telling me that.
I wanted the French people out there.
Well, they say that over there.
But that's why it went to France.
But there wouldn't be, you wouldn't have much competition over here because we can't even sell Rambeau letters to any great price.
Yeah.
You know, very, very little interest in French letters.
America is very provincial.
Let me ask you one other thing.
Because there's a lot of continental dealers over here today buying, but Flores is a leading Parisian dealer.
He's a dealer.
He could have been buying for his inventory, buying for collectors.
Schiller buys through Quaritch, I think.
Andr Schiller?
Schiller, yeah.
He buys through Quaritch, sometimes through Krauss.
He bought the Carlos Moore, I think he then was.
He really was buying for them.
Sometimes he buys through Krauss over here.
Roland Falter at
You can use my name with all these people.
I mean, say, you're writing this book for Random House.
You've talked to lots of people.
Lots of people.
Put your credentials out, because what the booksellers are afraid of is, here's a nice old lady doing another, let's collect real books for fun and profit, and you're not doing that.
The last letter I got to Larry McMurtry was yesterday, and he said, look, I think he's going to come around, because he wants me to practice.
You know, it would be great to get Larry to write an introduction for your breakfast, but he's written me three letters on it.
He's a great idea.
He was getting elected, gave me a guy in Tennessee to talk to.
Anyway, but Larry, a lady at this, who I spoke with and had a nice letter from, she's afraid of security.
She doesn't want to talk too much about this.
Talk to me briefly.
The Coke sale was a disaster last week.
If you analyze it, not necessarily so.
I think the Christie estimate might have been 950,000 or 12, 1.2 million.
Some of the problems were this, that 99% of the stock is purchased at all.
In the past eight years, which means it's too fresh on the market.
What does that mean?
Meaning, you know, if you buy something at a big sale,
for $5,000 and then three years later you're putting it up at auction again, you may not get any kind of appreciation on it.
The material is just like it's been on the market.
It's like a woman who's been all over town.
You know, she's not new, she's not striking, it's not a surprise, oh, there that is again.
It might be interesting, it might be valuable, it loses its appeal.
Why do you suppose the Pope Institute said this?
I think what it is, is that one of the foundations, a couple of foundations, was funded
to buy literature and manuscripts five, six, seven, eight years ago.
And I think for tax reasons, no more capital, no more funding can go in that corporation.
He's just reorganizing, reordering the priorities maybe to buy music.
Is he a collector in the 50th sense?
He already shut it off?
He thought that when Massey said past, he didn't know what was going on.
He thought he didn't realize the things that were past.
42 lots did not sell.
About eight of those sold after the sale of the reserves.
Out of those 42, you must have earned.
It's enormous.
Not out of line with some of the other sales that were happening this spring, but in dollar terms, it was only 10% less than the low estimate.
It was only 10%.
There were a lot of the technical problems with the material.
He was a major force in buying wild.
He was a major force in buying drones.
He was a major force in buying food.
So you take one of the major buyers out,
the major buyer is selling, there's been so much boost on the market.
Third reason, the American market for French literature is virtually non-aggressive.
Is Carl Carlton Lake represented there, do you know?
No, because Carlton didn't come, Beres didn't come, none of the French dealers really participated in the sale.
And maybe perhaps it wasn't that interesting to him.
Maybe the stuff wasn't that good?
Maybe it wasn't that or that good.
Maybe it wasn't
It might be unusual in New York to see Rambo letters, but in Paris, maybe it's not all that unusual.
There's been a ton of proof stuff.
There's been some fabulous French sales going on.
Were they substantive letters?
Were they talking about their art?
Yeah, they were good letters, but then again, he paid a lot for them, so the estimates and therefore the reserves were higher than what the American market would buy.
And also, there's been a...
vast quantity of literary material, Martin, Gordon.
I mean, this past season has been, from last June to now, from the beginning of Martin, has been electrifying, and that's been good on the American... You can even go earlier with the Gohenies, actually.
You can go, well, this follows Gohenies, so from, from, uh, from 487 to now, you're talking about, Gordon, you're talking about, just in New York, you're talking about a hundred million bucks worth of books out there.
I'm running at peace, I hope.
from the New York Times, an essay.
Becky Sinclair is a book writer, and she's quite interested in this piece.
And I said, yeah, $100 million.
But if you had a Japanese who spent $150 million for two paintings, this is it.
Imagine if you were to sit there.
You had this money.
Look, my thought is... You stand up and put together one of the finest... Look, now this is my point.
For what that Japanese, for what our Japanese friend paid for two super obvious masterworks, you could have thought, let's say, it would cost you more money, but let's say for the same amount,
Doheny could have Doheny, Garden, Olive Garden, Olive Garden.
You would have been instantly one of the great collectors in the history of the world.
And the proposal I have to the Times, and have 20 million left over to build an extraordinary building for it.
You would have been instantly... I mean, the building you could build for.
You would have been a national treasure.
You would have been going down in history as one of the great books and manuscript collectors.
in the Western War.
You would have been compared to Huntington who did a similar kind of a thing at the turn of the century.
It would have been magnificent.
It's kind of what Texas did in its own way.
It's kind of what Texas did as an institution.
You see, I've got a continuum.
Texas got into the field as a collector.
There were two collectors, it was Ransom and there was Loved.
Let's get the stuff, get the money, you get the stuff.
That is my chapter, basically.
They fit right in.
I'm an institution of Bibliomania.
Yeah.
There's such a thing.
There is.
Roger started this.
You know, Bineke came pretty close, but that's the deal.
Right, we need it.
No, it has to be in Texas.
Take a look at what Bineke was doing around the same time.